=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<pass-checker> [I<option>]+ I<PDF>+

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<pass-checker> is a command line application that may be used to
check that the supplied PDFs were created by one of the PASS
applications and that the encrypted metadata written by PASS matches
the unencrypted information.

One or more PDF files must be listed in the argument.

=head1 OPTIONS

The following options are available:

=over 4

=item B<--help> or B<-h>

Prints help message and exits.

=item B<--version> or B<-V>

Prints version details and exits.

=item B<--out> I<file> or B<-o> I<file>

Writes the output to I<file> instead of to STDOUT.

=item B<--job> I<file> or B<-j> I<file>

Reads Server Pass submission date from  I<file> (which can be exported via the
Uploads page). This switch has a cumulative action. Each instance
will add a new set of job data to the internal list.

=item B<--max-time-diff> I<n> or B<-m> I<n>

Sets the maximum time deviation in seconds.
This should take into account the expected length of time
it takes PASS to compile and test the application and to run LaTeX.

=item B<--flag-identical-checksums> or B<-c>

Flag coincident zip checksums.

=item B<--noflag-identical-checksums> or B<-k>

Don't flag coincident zip checksums (default).

=back

=head1 REQUIRES

Java 17 or later.

=head1 LICENSE

Copyright 2022 Nicola L. C. Talbot

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at

L<http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0>

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.

=head1 FURTHER INFORMATION

Home page: L<https://www.dickimaw-books.com/software/pass>

Source code on GitHub: L<https://github.com/nlct/pass>

Documentation: L<https://github.com/nlct/pass/blob/main/docs/passchecker.md>

=head1 AUTHOR

Nicola L. C. Talbot
L<https://www.dickimaw-books.com/>

=cut

