=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<pass-cli> [I<setting>]+

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<pass-cli> is a command line version of PASS (prepare programming
assignments for submission system). The F<lib/resources.xml> file
should contain a reference to a remote resources file with the
course labels and URLs to the relevant assignment XML file (as with
the GUI PASS). The resources file may also contain the full pathname
of binaries such as F<gcc> or F<pdflatex> if for some reason they
can't be found on the system C<PATH>. If the F<lib/resources.xml> is
missing it should be copied over from GUI PASS with path names
modified where appropriate.

The syntax for the XML files can be found at
L<https://www.dickimaw-books.com/software/pass/>. Note that URLs
must be the exact address (not a redirect). Any SSL/TCP (https)
addresses must have the certificate registered with Java's cacerts file.

=head1 OPTIONS

Options that take one or more values may be passed on the command
line using the syntax:

=over 4 

=item B<--I<long-option>=I<value> [I<value>]*> or 

=item B<--I<long-option> [I<value>]+>

=back

Some options have a short version, which should have the syntax:

=over 4 

=item B<-I<short-option> [I<value>]+>

=back

Most (but not all) settings may be provided in a plain text file
(input with B<--from-file>) where each line should be in the form:

I<Option>B<:> I<value>

If multiple values are required, they should be separated by a
B<TAB> character. For a boolean option, the value should be either
C<true> or C<false>.  Any lines starting with C<#> will be treated
as comments.

The option name should be the same as the long
switch without the leading C<--> and with the first character
converted to uppercase. For example, the course code can be
specified on the command line using:

=over 4 

=item B<--course=CMP-123XY> or

=item B<--course CMP-123XY> or

=item B<-c CMP-123XY> or in a file:

=item B<Course: CMP-123XY>

=back

=head2 INITIAL OPTIONS

These options aren't required, but if present will always be
processed before all other options. They can't be specified in the
file loaded with B<--from-file>.

=over 4

=item B<--help> or B<-h>

Prints help message and exits.

=item B<--version> or B<-V>

Prints version details and exits.

=item B<--encoding> I<name>

The file encoding used for the file identified by B<--from-file> and
for the transcript file (identified by B<--transcript>). If not set,
the default for the Java installation will be used.

=item B<--directory> I<dir> or B<-d> I<dir>

If set, files identified with B<--file> (or B<File:>) 
are relative to the directory I<dir>.

=item B<--message> I<id> or B<-m> I<id>

Identifies the types of messages that are printed to STDOUT or STDERR. The
I<id> may be either a numeric value or a keyword:

=over 4

=item C<0>	C<silent>

No messages.

=item C<1>	C<errors>

Errors only (STDERR).

=item C<2>	C<errors and warnings>

Errors and warnings only (STDERR).

=item C<3>	C<errors and warnings and info>

Errors and warnings to STDERR and informational messages to STDOUT.

=item C<4>	C<verbose>

All messages (except debugging).

=item C<5>	C<debug>

Include debugging messages.

=back 

The silent option will print fatal messages to STDERR if no
transcript file has been specified otherwise it won't print anything
to STDOUT or STDERR.

If a transcript file has been specified, then all messages will be
written to it regardless of the message ID. (Except for debugging
messages, which will only be written for the 5/debug setting.)

=item B<--silent>

Equivalent to B<--message=silent>

=item B<--transcript> I<filename> or B<-l> I<filename>

Write transcript messages to I<filename>.

=item B<--from-file> I<filename> or B<-F> I<filename>

Read settings from I<filename>. Additional settings may be provided
on the command line as long as they don't conflict with settings in
I<filename>.

=back

=head2 REQUIRED SETTINGS

=over 4

=item B<--course> I<label> or B<-c> I<label>

Identifies the course. There must be a corresponding C<course>
element in the F<lib/resources.xml> file with a matching name that
provides a reference to the course assignment data.

If you are using B<--from-file> the equivalent setting is:

B<Course:> I<label>

=item B<--file> I<filename> [I<language>] or B<-f> [I<language>]

Identifies a project file (source code or PDF/DOC). The optional
second argument is the language name (make, C, C++ etc) where the
file extension is missing or ambiguous. This setting is cumulative;
use one instance for each file. At least one file must be specified.
If B<--directory> I<dir> is used then I<filename> is relative to
the specified directory I<dir>.

If you are using B<--from-file> the equivalent setting is:

B<File:> I<filename>

or (TAB separating I<filename> and I<language>)

B<File:> I<filename>	I<language>

Note that the project files must be either text files or PDF/DOC.
Binary files will trigger an error if they are identified as source
code/plain text.

If the given filename clashes with a resource file or output file
associated with the assignment then B<pass-cli> will terminate with exit
code 6 (invalid file). This will also occur if the filename is
C<a.out> or has a forbidden extension (such as C<.exe> or C<.jar>).

=item B<--assignment> I<label> or B<-a> I<label>

Identifies the assignment. There must be a corresponding
C<assignment> element in the assignment data file with a matching
name.

If you are using B<--from-file> the equivalent setting is:

B<Assignment:> I<label>

=item B<--student> I<id> I<n> or B<-s> I<id> I<n>

Identifies a student with Blackboard ID I<id> and registration
number I<n>.

If you are using B<--from-file> the equivalent setting is (TAB
separating I<id> and I<n>):

B<Student:> I<id>	I<n>

Alternatively, you can use B<--user-id> and
B<--student-number> to specify the ID and registration number
separately. 

For a group project use multiple instances of this
setting. However, you can't mix B<--student> with 
B<--user-id> and B<--student=number>.

=item B<--user-id> I<id>[,I<id>]*

Identifies the student's Blackboard ID. For a group project use a
comma-separated list of IDs. This option must be used with
B<--student-number> (with the same length list). This option can't
be used with B<--student>.

If you are using B<--from-file> the equivalent setting is:

B<User-id:> I<id>[,I<n>]*

=item B<--student-number> I<n>[,I<n>]*

Identifies the student's registration number. For a group project use a
comma-separated list of numbers. This option must be used with
B<--user-id> (with the same length list). This option can't
be used with B<--student>.

If you are using B<--from-file> the equivalent setting is:

B<Student-number:> I<id>[,I<n>]*

=item B<--pdf-result> I<file> or B<-r> I<file>

Specifies the filename of the output PDF file. 

=item B<--agree> or B<-Y>

This option has no value and indicates that the "I agree that by
submitting a PDF generated by PASS I am confirming that I have
checked the PDF and that it correctly represents my submission"
checkbox should be ticked.

If you are using B<--from-file> the equivalent setting is:

B<Agree: true>

This option is required unless the F<lib/resources.xml> file has
C<E<lt>agree required="false" /E<gt>> set.

=back

=head2 OPTIONAL SETTINGS

=over 4

=item B<--no-agree> or B<-N>

This option has no value and indicates that the "I agree..."
checkbox should not be ticked. This setting is the default. However,
by default agreement is required so the user will typically need to
explicitly use B<--agree> otherwise B<pass-cli> will exit with a fatal
error.

If you are using B<--from-file> the equivalent setting is:

B<Agree: false>

In order to enable this option, the F<lib/resources.xml> file needs
C<E<lt>agree required="false" /E<gt>> set.

=item B<--submission-timestamp> I<ISO datetime>

This option is only available for B<pass-cli-server> (a slightly
modified version of B<pass-cli> designed to run on a server in a
Docker container). This option should not be made available for any
version of PASS that can be run directly by students.

The server version uses a queuing system so there may be a delay
before the project can be processed. The server backend should use
this option to instruct PASS to show the provided timestamp on the
title page instead of the current time.

=item B<--job-id> I<n>

This option is only available for B<pass-cli-server> and identifies
the job number, which is used at the start of messages to help
distinguish which message relates to which job (since they are all
written to the same log file).

=back

=head1 EXIT CODES

=over 4

=item 0 - successful

=item 1 - syntax error

=item 2 - no course data

=item 3 - I/O error

=item 4 - XML parser error

=item 5 - unsupported setting

=item 6 - invalid file

=item 100 - other error

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Nicola L. C. Talbot
L<https://www.dickimaw-books.com/>

=cut

